we can now talk to Ian Bremer political
scientist and president and founder of
the Eurasia group ngz media Mr Bremer
good to have you on the show now what
influence does the International
Community have over what happens between
Israel and
Hamas the International Community I wish
I knew where that was uh there was an
effort by Brazil to put forward a
security Council resolution that would
both condemn Hamas terrorism and also uh
urge uh focus on humanitarian support
for the Palestinians that failed uh with
an American veto the United States of
course is Israel's most important Ally
uh in the world Israel's America's most
important Ally in the region uh a lot of
the developed world is aligned with that
if not completely most of the global
South is not and almost everyone is
Unified in having ignored the
Palestinians for most of the last decade
uh but that turns out to be something we
shouldn't have been agreed upon uh and
uh and the world is getting a lot more
challenging because the pivot away from
The Middle East uh proves to you that
you have to continue uh to keep focusing
so I wish I had a better answer for that
question but maybe I will for your next
one yeah I mean we have seen Qatar and
turkey offering to mediate Anthony
blinkin is toward the region so as
analina babok China is sending someone
soon is there anybody who's suited to
really achieve something in
this the Americans are most suited in in
the sense that they have the most
leverage over Israel Biden doesn't like
or trust nanahu but that doesn't mean uh
that they won't work together they will
and given that the Israelis are the ones
that are now on the back of the
terrorist atrocities in October 7th are
planning a ground Invasion that will be
incredibly bloody um on the back uh of a
couple of weeks of bombings it is the
United States that's going to play the
most significant role the Chinese will
be on the margins the Europeans will be
on the margins they all understand that
but it would be nice to have the
regional players involved at actively
especially uh because we're talking
about the potential of this war
expanding expanding into the West Bank
into Lebanon with Hezbollah maybe more
broadly and in that regard the biggest
news this week was a disappointment it
was the fact that the Palestinians the
jordanians and the Egyptians canell what
was going to be a summit with President
Biden in the region on the back of his
trip to Israel yeah he traveled to
Israel he met with Netanyahu someone you
say he doesn't like Ora trust he did
come with a strong message of solidarity
but in the wake of what Israel is
calling its 911 he also came with a
message of caution didn't
he he did and and if it's Israel's 911
and of course in terms of the impact on
a country that size that's much greater
than 911 was for the United States but
the US does have some lessons 20 years
of war and Terror led to a lot of
failures uh I mean failures domestically
in um a an overly repressive policy uh
that took away human Liberties
especially in terms of profiling Muslims
in the United States but also and much
more tragically failed Wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan that cost trillions of
dollars and disrupted millions of
millions of lives and the United States
does not want Israel to repeat those
mistakes a ground occupation uh of Gaza
would certainly go a long way in
repeating those mistakes I will tell you
personally I think that Israel has every
right to want to destroy the terrorist
organization Hamas but I also need to
tell you we're talking about 30 or
40,000 fighters in Gaza and I do not
know how Israel can accomplish that um
especially because they operate within
and next to civilians putting them in
danger yeah how Israel accomplishes that
without radicalizing far more
Palestinians to become okay they'll
change their name but an organization
that will be much more dangerous for
Israel and for the region is that what
you meant when you said a couple days
ago that the Israeli population is most
threatened by what the terrorists of
Hamas unleash from
Israel that's absolutely right I think
it was gold in my ear uh that that once
said that we won't hate you um for
killing our children we will hate you
for making us kill your children um and
and that precisely is the danger that
when you're fighting a monster you
cannot become a monster and Israel
cannot be an a position um where the the
radicalization that has already occurred
among Palestinians that has already
occurred in Gaza which has become
functionally unlivable over the past
decades gets worse and worse and worse
again um Hamas uh needs to leave this
earth uh anyone that's engaged in
directly targeting civilians the elderly
the children we cannot have they they
have no place in civilized society but
but Israel has to be so incredibly
careful um in in not making matters
vastly worse um in the way that they
decide to pursue a legitimate response
against those terrorist attacks as Ian
Bremer great speaking to you thank you
so much for your time thank you